# NewYork Hospital Data
With American rising health insurance premiums being commonly discussed in the news, I was curious to understand whether hospital quality was affected by the income level of the neighbourhood the hospital was in. My hypothesis was that the richer the neighbourhood, the better quality the hospital would be. To test this hypothesis, I gathered hospital and income data from NYC Open Data. To assess hospital quality, I used a measure called “Potentially Preventable Complications” (PPC). This measure indicates whether a patient picked up a secondary infection from the hospital as a result of going to that hospital for another reason. For example, this would be like getting pneumonia after going to the hospital for a routine procedure. I selected this measure as a proxy for hospital quality as this measure is not confounded by what patients initially went to the hospital for, and provides a more objective measure than patient testimonies. High quality hospitals should have low levels of PPCs. To assess whether income and poverty levels of the hospital’s zip code affected the PPC rate, I performed a principal component analysis of zip code, income and poverty levels, PPC rates and a few other proxies of hospital quality. Surprisingly, I found that there is no relationship between poverty and income levels of a hospital’s neighbourhood and the hospital’s PPC rate. This was a surprising finding, because American hospitals are compensated more when their patients are wealthy and have private health insurance, compared to lower income patients that pay through government assistance. 
